Okay, so the next thing that I wanna talk
a little bit about is code coverage.
Code coverage is a metric that
you can use to know how much of
your code base is being
exercised by your test suite.
You can imagine if you have tests but
you're only ever hitting like ten lines of
thousand line program, then that's not
gonna really tell you a whole lot.
But if you can hit every line in your
test suite, then that's a lot better.
And so
code coverage will let you tell that,
we'll answer those kinds of questions.
So I'm gonna talk really briefly about how
code coverage works behind the scenes and
we'll get into using it in a little bit.
So, code coverage tools generally
read the AST of your code.
So this means that you can take a piece
of code like a piece of JavaScript and
turn it into a data structure that
you can manipulate other tools.
So I can show you what that looks like.
So here we have a file foo.js.
And I can require a library
that parses the AST like acorn.
It has a parse function.
And so I can do do fs.readFile on that
foo.js file and convert it to a string.
And here we go, we have this data
structure now that represents this
entire program.
So there are other programs that you can
run that manipulate these data structures.
And what you can do is, you can imagine if
you can write a program that could modify
this data structure to put a little
wrapper around every single line.
So it'd be like like countedLine (0) and
then countedLine(1), countedLine(2),
then you can imagine that every
time that this program ran,
it would print out information about
where in the program you were.
So that's really handy if you wanna
implement something like code coverage.
So I have a little transform that
works in node in the browser for
doing this called coverify.
So with browserify you can
specify different kinds of
plugins that will work on the source code.
So in this case it coverify
uses the AST to do exactly
like I was just showing you
putting in all kinds of little
statements everywhere just to see
where in the program has been visited.
So if we run our tests,
if I hop back into that
example here where we
had index.js I think.
Right, so why don't I write a quick little
simpler tests cuz that other one is quite
complicated.
So here we've got something more like
those original programs I was showing you.
And we can elevenify 1 and
then get back the result, so.
The result should be 111 in this case, and
if there's an error we wanna know about
it, so that should be two assertions.
Okay, so if I browserify this code,
there's an option if you wanna run your
browserify code in node
you can pass in --node.
And so
I guess the plan was wrong for that.
Or plan (1) should be plan (2).
Okay, so, start works.
What that code is gonna look like on
standard out is it's formatted all
into just one big blob that like,
if you were writing browser code,
you would stick this in a script
tag like we did earlier.
If I run this with the coverify package
however, we see pretty different code.
So here we have all of these
statements coverage wrap,
which are just all over the place.
And how this works is every time it
gets to one of those statements,
if it's the first time that it's seen it,
then it prints a message called covered.
And it does that just like
tape using console.log.
Which is something that's
gonna work in node and
in the browser, so it's kinda handy.
So if I run that in node now,
in addition to the tap output,
I also see all of this
coverage information.
So you can see that okay, the first thing
that it prints is for every file it
provides a list of all of the places that
ought to be covered by the code coverage.
And this is done with a with just
the first pass over the AST.
Then every time it visits one of
those places for the first time,
it prints a message.
And so you can pipe that through another
program that comes with coverify
if you do npm install dash g
coverify you'll get the program.
And if you do npm install
coverify without dash g,
you'll get the transform, as a library.
So if I pipe that output through coverify
I guess that's in node_modules/.bin
cuz I didn't install it globally,
then I get a little coverage report.
So in this case, the coverage is 100%.
So we don't really need to
know much more about the code.
But if we had places in the code,
like if I had some deadCode
down here or
maybe I had a secret case where like,
if n = 5, then I'm gonna make it mess up.
Can I call it 554?
Yeah, it'll be good.
So if we had some special
cases in our code for example,
then when I ran the coverify commands,
it's able to detect those.
So we see that the first part of this
if statement did actually execute, but
n was not 5, so
we didn't run into this case.
So our code coverage
is now less than 100%.
But if I modify the test suite
to add a second case for
that, so I'll do for 5 now should be
555, no 554, can see that.
It's going to fail because the 554 case,
but the code coverage should be 100%.
So if I modify that,
code back to something that works.
And now we should see 100% again.
There we go.
So that's kind of the basic idea of
how code coverage is implemented.
And there's another tool that's a little
much more robust than this one.
This is it's still useful,
but it can't handle quite all of
the cases that this toolkit called nyc.
So you can install it with npm
globally and it'll give you a command.
And then you can just pass
nyc in front of whatever
commands that you wanna run and
it's somehow able to know.
I don't know exactly the mechanics
that it uses behind the scenes but
probably something that the AST
in some really hacky stuff.
I can only imagine what it's doing.
But I can show you what it
looks like on a real code base.
So here's just a simple little package or
an npm test, and I get this output or
I could run tape test as well.
So tape test.js.
If you put nyc in front
of any of those commands
then it's gonna print
out a coverage report.
And I can show you what that looks
like if all of the code isn't covered
by just like putting some
deadCode in here as well.
So, extremely simple module.
But if we had deadCode.
Then nyc would tell us about that.
So yeah, so uncovered lines 8 and then
there's a bunch of commands that you can
use to sort of drill down more into where
in your code base you haven't covered.